Data professionals give their organizations the ability to take meaningful action by re-imagining processes and improving operations. 
Data teams require individuals with diverse skills, knowledge, an interests. Therefore, there are countless different data focused roles, responsibilities, and project types, which are further differentiated by the industries and businesses they support.
Data careers can be loosely categorized into two complimentary types of work. Technical and Strategic.
Technical data professionals - Requires heavy emphasis on technical skills. Eg: machine learning engineers and statisticians. Through their expertise in mathematics, statistics, and computing, they build models and make predictions. They use tools such as R and Python to extract value from business data sets. 
Another technical Role - Expert data analyst - Their work involves exploring vast and complex data sets to identify directions worth pursuing in the first place.
Strategic data professionals - Eg: Business intelligence professionals, Technical project managers - They use their skills to interpret information that affects an organization's operations, finance, research and development, and so much more. They maximize information to guide how a business works. 
Examples of how data professionals use their expertise to transform industries
Finance - Early adopter of the power of data science. Data professionals help financial institutions assess investment risk, monitor market trends, detect anomalies to reduce fraud, and create a more stable financial system overall.
Healthcare - Helps health care organizations process large amounts of clinical data, which supports the early detection of a health condition and leads to more precise diagnosis.
Manufacturing - Predict when to perform preventative maintenance to avoid production line breakdowns, use data to maximize quality assurance and defect tracking, and artificial intelligence models help respond to logistical issues and reduce delivery truck miles on the road, advancing key sustainability goals. It enables clear and a near real time communication with suppliers, retailers, and other network partners.
Agriculture - Farmers can use the data insights to approach crop production, livestock care, forestry, and agriculture. The inclusion of autonomous machinery, tractors, and irrigation systems is improving harvesting technologies as well.
